# Kernel Components
The main functional blocks you find in the kernel code base are as follows:
- **Process management**, such as starting a process based on an executable file
- **Memory management**, such as allocating memory for a process or map a file into memory
- **Networking**, like managing network interfaces or providing the network stack
- **Filesystems** providing file management and supporting the creation and deletion of files
- Management of character devices and **device drivers**

# Let’s have a closer look at the kernel components.
## Process Management:
There are a number of process management–related parts in the kernel. Some of them deal with CPU architecture–specific things, such as interrupts, and others focus on the launching and scheduling of programs.

Before we get to Linux specifics, let’s note that commonly, a process is the user-facing unit, based on an executable program (or binary). A thread, on the other hand, is a unit of execution in the context of a process. You might have come across the term multithreading, which means that a process has a number of parallel executions going on, potentially running on different CPUs.

With this general view out of the way, let’s see how Linux goes about it. From most granular to smallest unit, Linux has the following:
### Session<br>
    Contain one or more process groups and represent a high-level user-facing unit with optional tty attached. The kernel identifies a session via a number called session ID (SID).
### Process groups<br>
    Contain one or more processes, with at most one process group in a session as the foreground process group. The kernel identifies a process group via a number called process group ID (PGID).
### Processes<br>
    Abstractions that group multiple resources (address space, one or more threads, sockets, etc.), which the kernel exposes to you via /proc/self for the current process. The kernel identifies a process via a number called process ID (PID)
### Threads<br>
    Implemented by the kernel as processes. That is, there are no dedicated data structures representing threads. Rather, a thread is a process that shares certain resources (such as memory or signal handlers) with other processes. The kernel identifies a thread via thread IDs (TID) and thread group IDs (TGID), with the semantics that a shared TGID value means a multithreaded process (in user land; there are also kernel threads, but that’s beyond our scope).
### Tasks<br>
    In the kernel there is a data structure called (task_struct) defined in sched.h that forms the basis of implementing processes and threads alike. This data structure captures scheduling-related information, identifiers (such as PID and TGID), and signal handlers, as well as other information, such as that related to performance and security. In a nutshell, all of the aforementioned units are derived and/or anchored in tasks; however, tasks are not exposed as such outside of the kernel.

Let’s see some of these concepts in action:
```bash
$ ps -j
PID PGID SID TTY TIME CMD
6756 6756 6756 pts/0 00:00:00 bash 
6790 6790 6756 pts/0 00:00:00 ps 
```
1. The bash shell process has PID, PGID, and SID of 6756. From `ls -al /proc/6756/task/6756/`, we can glean the task-level information.
2. The ps process has PID/PGID 6790 and the same SID as the shell.

## Memory Management
